Venezuelan protesters
throw rocks at forces loyal
to President Nicolás Maduro.
We’re on the Colombian side
of the border with Venezuela.
We came here to see if the
fight to push across U.S. aid
will break Maduro’s
hold on power.
But so far, the confrontation
has led to this:
tear gas, hundreds
of injuries,
and the trucks with the aid
eventually turning back.
It was a very different scene
along the border
the day before.
This bridge has been
barricaded by Maduro
to keep our donated food
and medical supplies, which
he sees as a ploy to
undermine his government.
[music]
On this day, the bridge
turned into the stage
for a star-studded concert
[singing]
energizing Venezuelans
with pop music
and rallying support
for the opposition.
[cheering]
At times, it felt removed from
the reality inside Venezuela
and we wondered if
a show like this
could really play any part
in bringing political change.
We spoke with billionaire
Richard Branson, one
of the event’s organizers.
We film from up here.
We’re both in sweaty t-shirts.
“We’re going to have a
wonderful concert today.
Hopefully, it’ll be
a dawn of a new era.”
Do you believe that?
Do you believe
that it can be —
that can be achieved?
“I’m really hopeful.
I think anybody who’s
in a position to help
should help.”
Is this just a
media spectacle?
“Go and talk to the
people in the audience,
who are predominantly
Venezuelans,
and you’ll realize that
it’s anything but that.”
[music]
“Imagine
there’s no country.
It isn’t hard to do.
Nothing to kill or die for — “
It’s the day that
the opposition
will try to force the
aid across the border.
And we’re back where the
concert ended hours before.
[truck horn honking]
Juan Guaidó, the leader of
the opposition, arrives.
He’s been recognized as
Venezuela’s president
by more than 50 countries,
including the United States.
Everyone on the bridge is
watching to see what will
happen when Guaidó tries
to lead the trucks carrying
across the aid.
But the border is sealed.
On the other side, the
Venezuelan armed forces,
essential to Maduro’s
power, do not budge.
And Guaidó’s hope that they
would step aside to let
the aid through is dashed.
Guaidó and the trucks never
make it onto the bridge,
nor do these Venezuelans.
Colombian police keep them
back to prevent clashes.
But on other bridges,
violence does break out.
We tag along with Omar
Lares, a former mayor
living in exile for opposing
Maduro’s government.
We see one of the
trucks with aid burning
after protesters clashed with
Venezuelan security forces.
At the end of the day,
a couple of dozen soldiers
had defected.
But Maduro survived
the challenge.
Guaidó is outside his country,
and it’s unclear when
he’ll be able to return.
Now the stage is set for
what could become a bloodier
conflict, as
Venezuela’s presidents
dig in their heels.
[sirens wailing]